>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
welcome back from that.
I trust that you found that
satisfyingly challenging to deal
with the various corner cases.
So let's dive in and
try to write a findAll utility.
And fair warning, I'm definitely gonna
have to look at my own solution cuz I'm
sure I'm gonna miss one of these cases and
fumble around with.
All right, so the signature of findAll
is that we wanna take in a value,
I'll call it v, and
we wanna take in a list, I'll call it arr.
And actually let's call that not v,
let's call it match,
that's the thing we're matching against,
arr is the list of values to pull from.
We're supposed to return back an array.
So we'll start out with an empty array and
return that.
And then we need to loop through
all of the values in arr.
>> Speaker 2: I think you're
returning an empty array.
>> Kyle Simpson: Sorry, thank you.
We want to return all of
the values in arr that match our.
So I will do a for
of loop just for simplicity.
We'll loop over all the values in arr.
And if we find any, we'll stuff into this
return array and then return them, okay.
So fairly straightforwardly
the first test is,
if v and
match are object.is of each other.
In other words, they are strictly exactly
the same, so that's a pretty easy one.
If Object.is and we use match and v.
We know that they
are definitely the same value,
so we can just push into the return array.
I'm sorry, v into the return array.
Let's just stop right here and
make sure that we haven't missed anything.
Let's try this out in our
particular test cases.
And we should see a few
test cases pass and
then several of them
obviously still failing.
So let's try that.
And this little environment I have
doesn't like that function at the bottom,
so I will move this up
here just temporarily.
Okay, so we run this.
And you'll notice that the first three are
failing still, but then the next two pass,
and then we get several more that pass.
So we did pretty good.
We got several of these returning
what we would expect already.
Let's switch back then.
And the next case that is pretty
straightforward to handle is the null and
undefined case.
The readme said that nulls and undefines
should coercively match each other.
So if match is coercively
equal to null and
v is coercively equal to null,
then we know we can go ahead and
push that.
I guess I should have
done an else in here.
We know we can go ahead and
push that into the array.
Remember the match, I'm sorry,
the null and undefined,
in the case of coercive equality here.
Remember that that's safe, that nulls and
undefineds are coercively equal to
each other and to nothing else.
So we don't have to worry about any
weird corner cases of negative zeros or
anything like that in this
particular case, all right.
So if we were to run, I'll pull just that
one over into my run environment here,
and we should see a few
more of our tests now pass.
>> Kyle Simpson: And there is
a couple down here that I think now
that are now passing, okay.
So progress.
Now the next one we know is that we wanna
allow strict matching with Booleans,
meaning Booleans only match themselves,
they don't allow any coercion at all.
So if the type of, and
in this case we wanna
specifically narrow ourselves
to what's happening with match.
If match is a Boolean then that signals
to us that we need to
strictly match with the v.
So basically here if type
of match equals a Boolean,
and the type of v equals a Boolean,
cuz if it doesn't then they
shouldn't match at all.
If the type of match is Boolean and the
type of v is also Boolean, we know we have
both Booleans, but we definitely need
them to actually be the same Boolean.
So true needs to be true,
and false needs to be false.
So we could, and I'll explain a little
bit later why we're doing this, but
I'm gonna nest an if statement in here.
In the case of those of us knowing
that both of those are Booleans,
we still need to check to see
if they are the same one.
So we can say if match equals v.
Now we don't need a triple equals
here because we've already restricted
the surface area to know that both
of these are definitely Booleans.
Now I said earlier, you wanna avoid
the double equals when there's a Boolean.
That's generally true, but
if both of these are Booleans,
if you're trying to test against Booleans,
then we know that double equals here is
gonna do the same thing as triple equals.
So either way, you want to use the double
equals or a triple equals there.
Since the types are matched, they're
gonna do exactly the same thing, okay.
So if they are exactly the same value,
then we go ahead and push into v, okay.
Now the next two cases where some
more of the complexity comes in.
At first it seems easy and then we have to
remember negative zero kind of gunks up
all the works because of
the way that it lies.
Okay, so first off we said if, and let me
just point out, I forgot to point out, our
object.is is already handling this part
for us, so that clause is already handled.
So now all we need is the strings
coercing to numbers and
numbers coercing to strings.
But we need to remove those corner cases
that we don't want to allow to occur.
So if we wanna allow strings,
so a match could be
a string as long as it isn't an empty
string or a white space only string.
So let's code that up.
We have an else if
(typeof match == "string"
&& match.trim() !) Is not
equal to the empty string.
That handles both the empty string and
any white space only strings.
So we know matches a non white space,
non empty string.
And we wanna allow a coercion here but
only if v is a number,
so we need that clause.
And type of v is a number.
But this won't fully satisfy
our condition, because you'll
remember that this one only catches it
in terms of the if else if clause logic.
This one only catches it,
something like a negative zero,
if both of them are negative zero.
What if only one of them is negative zero?
So a negative zero might end up in
either the match or in the v position.
And what do we know about the coercion
that happens with a negative zero,
is that when we're going from a number
to a string, we lose the negative.
So we're gonna end up missing, if we pass
in a negative zero to match against and
we coerce it to a string,
we're gonna end up missing it.
So we want to remove from the set of our
consideration any negative zeros, okay.
So I'm gonna have to add in, let me just
double check myself here, I'm gonna have
to add in a check to make sure we're
not dealing with a v of negative zero.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, and then what we
wanna do then is allow the double equals
coercion operation to tell us
that these are coercively equal.
So we've eliminated all the corner cases
that we don't care about with that
surrounding if statement, and
now we just simply wanna allow
the double equals to either put it in
the array or not put it in the array.
Same as we did before.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, and then the final
clause is the other way around, if match
is a number and there's a several numbers
that we don't want to allow in there.
So we're gonna have to say if it's a
number but it's not one of these numbers.
Then we want to allow that
coercion from string to number.
All right, so if typeof match == "Number",
and then let's just refresh.
What are the values that we didn't
want to pay attention to there?
They are NaN and the two infinities.
So I'm gonna write this,
actually I'll go ahead and
break this onto different lines here,
a little more readable for you.
All right, so we don't wanna consider
any case where match is NaN,
>> Kyle Simpson: Or it's infinity or
it's negative
infinity, okay.
So those three cases for sure are out.
But we're gonna end up, and by the way,
we want the clause in there,
type of v has gotta be string.
So we've got a match of number, and
we wanna allow it only
if type of v is string.
But we have the exact same problem
here as we had in the previous one,
which is that negative zero could
come in and gunk up the works here.
So we need one final
statement in here that
says,
>> Kyle Simpson: That
matches not negative zero.
So I'll add that one in.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then we don't
want to, remember the string matching,
remember these rules up here,
the string matching?
So we don't just have to know
that type of v is a string, but
we also have to know it's a non empty,
non white space only string.
So we've got to add those
clauses in as well.
And there's a lot of refactoring
obviously that you can do at some point,
seeing all of the duplication here.
I'm just trying to show you the logic of
what are these corner cases that I want
to be avoiding.
So we wanna say,
v.trim is not equal to empty string.
That gets us into a scenario
where we can trust
the double equals to make
the coercive comparison.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
if I didn’t make any other omissions,
let me just double check.
>> Kyle Simpson: That should be it.
So if I haven’t made any other mistakes or
omissions, hopefully this should
pass all our test cases now.
Just like the weather man,
we'll cross our fingers and hope.
All right, so I'll drop in the find
all utility, and we will run it.
And we get all trues, yay.
All right, so just as a little bit
of a kind of reality check here.
This was a very contrived
scenario where we said,
we wanna implement our own subset,
if you will, of coercive matching.
That's not likely something
that you're gonna implement.
But the purpose of this exercise was
to illustrate the larger point which is
coercion can be safe when you
have eliminated the corner cases,
and made it obvious that
the corner cases are eliminated.
So the style of coding that I
was using here was intentional,
which was to say this outer if statement
is eliminating the corner cases.
And then inside it you can clearly see
a double equals that we can trust that is
safe because those corner cases
have been eliminated, okay.
So that's kind of an illustration of
the larger point about trying to be more
obvious with your types instead of always
trying to be as clever as possible and
have the most reduced code possible.
Sometimes a bit of duplication and
a bit of explicitness and a bit of
obviousness makes the code communicate
a little bit more clearly, okay.
So any questions about
the exercise on coercive equality?
>> Speaker 3: Do you have been able to
do the same thing with using a filter?
>> Kyle Simpson: So
you're asking if we could have done-
>> Speaker 3: Instead of pushing things,
could we start out with one,
start out with the array and then filter?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, so,
could we have, what you're asking is,
could we have implemented the matching
logic of the findAll function
instead of a utility that's standalone,
cuz we have implemented it as
what's called a predicate function.
Meaning it just returns true or
false if something should be thrown in or
not, absolutely, yep.
So basically all of this stuff would be
the substance of our predicate function,
and rather than having a findAll utility,
we'd just simply say values.filter
then pass in our predicate function.
So I would have been a totally
valid way of doing it as well.